---
layout: post
title:  "Rock, Paper, Scissors, Lizard, Spock"
date:   2015-06-13
categories: code
---

#Rock, Paper, Scissors, Lizards, Spock Game
I need to build a rock, paper, scissors game with two added elements of lizard and spock. This is a two player game, with no option for a computer player. The players can determine the "best of" a certain amount of games. The program will determine the winner of each round and keep score for both players. When one of the players has reached the "best of" score, the program will announce who one the game.

##Game Class
The game class is where the methods for the actual game is. There are five attributes initialized, but only two are required (player1_name and player2_name).

The attributes are:

- player1_name - String and is the name of player1.

- player2_name - String and is the name of player2.

- player1_move - String and is the move that player1 makes. This changes each round.

- player2_move - String and is the move that player2 makes. This changes each round.

- winners -  Hash that holds the winning moves as the key and the losing moves as the values. 

```ruby
class Game
  
  attr_accessor :player1_move, :player2_move, :player1, :player2
  
  #Initalizing attributes, player1_name and player2_name

  def initialize(player1_name, player2_name)
    @player1_name= player1_name
    @player2_name = player2_name
    @player1_move = player1_move
    @player2_move = player2_move
    @winners = {"rock" => ["scissors", "lizard"], "paper" => ["rock", "spock"], "scissors" => ["paper", "lizard"], 
      "lizard" => ["spock", "paper"], "spock" => ["rock", "scissors"]}
  end
```

###new players method
The new players method creates two new instances of the Player class. 

```ruby
  def new_players
     @player1 = Player.new(@player1_name)
     @player2 = Player.new(@player2_name)
   end
```

###valid moves method
The valid moves method has an Array of the allowed moves that can be typed in. The app.rb then runs the input information of each player's move and checks to make sure that they have only typed in one of the valid moves. 

```ruby
   def valid_moves
     valid = ["rock", "paper", "scissors", "lizard", "spock"]
   end
```

###tie_game method
The rock, paper, scissors, lizard, spock game is broken into two methods. The tie_game method and the player1_win? method. The tie_game method takes the valid moves of each player and checks them against each other. The method then returns either true if the two player's moves are the same or false if they are different. This method requires two arguments (player1_move and player2_move).

- player1_move - String of player1's move for each round.

- player2_move - String of player2's move for each round.

```ruby
  def tie_game(player1_move, player2_move)
    player1_move == player2_move
  end
```

###player1_win? method
The player1_win? method takes the valid moves of each player and checks them against each other. The method then returns either true if player1's move beats player2 or false if player2's move beats player1. This method requires two arguments (player1_move and player2_move).

- player1_move - String of player1's move for each round.

- player2_move - String of player2's move for each round.

```ruby
   def player1_win?(player1_move, player2_move)
     (@winners [player1_move][0] == player2_move) || @winners[player1_move][1] == player2_move
   end
```

###best_ of_ p1 method
The best_of_p1 method checks to see if player1's score is the "best of" the specific amount of games the players originally specified. If the player1 score is not greater than the "best of", the game continues to the next round. If player1's score is greater than the "best of", then the game is over. This method requires one argument (best_of_rounds).

- best_of_rounds - Float of the number of rounds the player's specified at the beginning of the game divided by 2.

```ruby
   def best_of_p1(best_of_rounds)
    player1.score >= (best_of_rounds)
   end
```

###best_ of_ p2 method
The best_of_p2 method checks to see if player2's score is the "best of" the specific amount of games the players originally specified. If the player2 score is not greater than the "best of", the game continues to the next round. If player2's score is greater than the "best of", then the game is over. This method requires one argument (best_of_rounds).

- best_of_rounds - Float of the number of rounds the player's specified at the beginning of the game divided by 2.

```ruby
   def best_of_p2(best_of_rounds)
    player2.score >= (best_of_rounds)
   end
```
##Player Class
This class creates a new player. There are three attributes initialized, but only one is required (name). 

The attributes are:

- name - String and is the name of the player

- move - Empty String and is the player's move in each round

- score - Integer and is the player's score and starts at 0.

```ruby
class Player
  
  attr_accessor :name, :move, :score
  
  #Initalized name 
  def initialize(name)
    @name = name  
    @move = ""
    @score = 0
  end
```

###update_score
The update_score method updates the player's score who wins each round. 

```ruby
  def update_score
    @score += 1
  end
 
end
``` 